So in terms of passive
unobtrusive data collection,
there are a variety of ways companies
can get data from customers.
This is just one sort of examples.
It can be point of sales data,
for media planning for instance.
It could be data about radio, TV,
social media, kind of audience engagement.
It could be web data, mobile data.
What we wanna do in
this particular module,
we will talk about examples
of different types of data.
And more importantly,
also related to the type of questions that
people can answer using this type of data.
So point of sales data
is just one example.
So in this example, for instance,
we look at grocery categories, health and
beauty products.
This is just one example of the type
of data that's available to consumers
and firms.
The typical data chain has about 80 to 100
consumer packaging manufacturers, many,
many households.
And the type of information that's
available is quite dramatic.
In terms of geography, product, time and
the type of marketing
variables you can have.
You can have different kinds of stores.
You can have aggregation in terms of SKUs.
You can have aggregation in terms of time.
Lots of different kinds
of data is available.
Now, there are many companies
that offer point of sales data.
I'll give you examples of
the big companies that do so.
ACNielsen is a huge force in
getting point of sales data.
So that's one example.
IRI is yet another company and
the third company is SPINS.
Now these three companies basically
give you data of different
kinds of point of sales.
So ACNielsen and IRI typically deal with
traditional kinds of stores that you have
in grocery stores, traditional products.
SPINS gives you lots of information
about organic products.
So depending on the company you're in,
depending on the products that
you look at, ACNielsen, IRI or
SPINS might be the ideal company
to give you this type of data.
Now why do people pay so
much for point of sales data?
First, it's quite complete.
You can link aggregate sales
to marketing instruments.
For example,
as a marketing manager, you would like
to answer the following question.
How do promotions impact my sales?
To answer this question,
you need good data about promotions.
You need good data about sales.
Point of sales data can
get you that information.
It's quite timely.
You can get data of different
types of aggregation.
You can get data within a week,
within a month,
if you like to make those
kinds of decisions.
And finally it's very accurate.
Again going back to the questions that you
can try to answer with this type of data.
One is impact of promotions.
Who buys our product on promotions?
Are customers borrowing from future sales?
Say if I as a costumer buy two
cartons of orange juice today,
is it borrowing from my future sales?
I might hold off on buying
future orange juice.
Will cherry pickers become loyal?
Say, if I decide to buy, for
example, Tropicana today,
instead of Minute Maid, because
Tropicana was offering a promotion,
will I become loyal to Tropicana?
Those are important questions for
brand managers to understand.
Why?
Because that tells you what's
the impact of promotions going to be,
not just in the short term but
in the long term.
You can also start thinking what
impact on displays, for example.
So those of you who go around supermarket
aisles, you can start looking, for
example, at end of aisle displays,
middle of aisle displays.
These are little displays which allow
you to see what brands are on promotion.
How do they work?
Is middle-of-aisle display better
than end-of-aisle display?
Requires concrete data.
And finally you can start
thinking about not just
what's the action within
a particular product category,
you can start start thinking about
action across product categories.
And this is very important from
a retail store manager's perspective.
How is the overall chain doing?
What products are selling together?
What products
are cannibalizing each other?
All those questions can be very well
answered through point of sales data.
What are some caveats though?
One caveat is it misses out on
things such as convenience stores.
Again, in the grocery products
brands such as Whole Foods,
Aldi, Trader Joe's are not
there in the data set.
Think back to what we
talked about InfoScout.
InfoScout is a solution to this.
InfoScout actually wants people to
take a snapshot of their receipts and
send it back to them.
So if these costumers are buying
products at Whole Foods,
InfoScout will have that information.
But point of sales data may not have it.
Another example is you cannot
make causal statements.
What's the problem here?
I would like to know,
for example, how does my promotion
impact consumer behavior?
What you can get a lot of information
on is on promotion that was there.
You can get a lot of information
on what people are buying.
But was there a causal impact of this?
We'll come back to this when we
talk about causal attribution.
And we don't know customer
psychographics and finally, we
also don't know what are the exact set of
products that consumers were looking at.
But still,
keeping all these caveats in mind,
point of sales data is a hugely important
data if you start thinking about
trying to capture what a customer's
buying, what are they buying,
what is overall in their basket,
and so on and so forth.